# JavaScript Intro

### What is JavaScript?

-  **dynamic**, **interpreted**, **untyped**, **function-oriented** programming language with **object-oriented** capabilities.

-  interact with the user and make dynamic pages. 

   - can control the elements of a web page

     e.g., change their properties and location, move, react to events such as moving a mouse or pressing a keyboard, and create many other interesting effects.

- Automatic garbage collection.
- Using anonymous functions.



### Key technical abilities for JavaScript

- can be used to **trap** **user**-initiated **events** such as button clicks, link navigation, and other actions that the user initiates explicitly or implicitly.

- Send requests over the network to remote servers, download and upload files (so-called [AJAX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ajax_(programming)) and [COMET](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comet_(programming)) technologies).

- Get and set cookies, ask questions to the visitor, show messages.

- Remember the data on the client-side (“**local storage**”).

  

JavaScript can execute 

- in the browser
  - has an embedded engine sometimes called a “JavaScript virtual machine”.
- on the server
-  or on any device that has a special program called [the JavaScript engine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript_engine).



### Advantage of JavaScript

- **Less server interaction** 

  We can validate user input before sending the page off to the server. This saves server traffic.

- **Immediate feedback to the visitors** 

  They don't have to wait for a page reload to see if they have forgotten to enter something.

- **Increased interactivity** 

  We can create interfaces that react when the user hovers over them with a mouse or activates them via the keyboard.

- **Richer interfaces** 

  We can use JavaScript to include such items as drag-and-drop components and sliders to give a Rich Interface to the site visitors.



### Limitations of JavaScript

- No reading or writing of files. This has been kept for security reason.

- Cannot be used for networking applications because there is no such support available.

-  No multithreading or multiprocessor capabilities.



### How do engines work?

1. The **engine** (embedded if it’s a browser) reads (“parses”) the **script**.
2. Then it **converts** (“compiles”) the script **to** the **machine language**.
3. And then the machine code runs, pretty fast.

The engine applies optimizations at each step of the process. It even watches the compiled script as it runs, analyzes the data that flows through it, and further optimizes the machine code based on that knowledge.



### Program structure

Two ways.

1. place the code directly **in HTML file**

```html
<html>
    <head>
        <script language="javascript" type="text/javascript">
            function sayHello() {
                alert("Hello Word")
            }
        </script>
    </head>

    <body>
        <input type="button" onclick="sayHello()" value="Say Hello" />
    </body>

</html>
```

2. place the code **in a separate file**.

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="filename.js"></script>
  </head> 
  <body>
    ...
  </body> 
</html>
```

