we can't validate the credentials in the browser, that has to happen on the server.

In traditional web apps, where the server would render pages for different URLs you enter,  you would work with a session. But with Angular, we work with single page applications, we decouple the front-end from the back-end. For different pages we visit, it is all handled by Angular Router, it re-render the page or parts of pages. 

We will not use a session because RESTful APIs is stateless. The backend now will be an API, and it will not be a server that renders the HTML pages, therefore, sessions can't be used because the server doesn't care about the client.

A session would just store on the server, and the server doesn't care about the client. client and server are decoupled from each other, they communicate through the HttpClient Angular offers.

when the server needs to validate the username and password, if the data is valid, the server will send the client a JSON token, the string is encoded not encrypted, which means this string can be unpacked and read by the client.

client stores that local in local storage of the browser and attaches the token to any request that need to be authenticated



## JWT Authentication

JWT consists three parts:

1. header: what algorithm we use to encode the data
2. payload: the actual data, data to define a user session.
3. signature

To confirm if they are valid, we only need to inspect the token itself and validate the signature.

 In an enterprise scenario, the login page is often hosted on a separate server, which is part of a company-wide Single Sign-On solution.



We have several different ways of sending the token back to the user, for example:

- In a Cookie
  - using cookies to store JWTs
    - pro
    - con
- In the Request Body
- In a plain HTTP Header

https://blog.angular-university.io/angular-jwt-authentication/

### Storing and using the JWT on the client side

[Step 4 - Storing and using the JWT on the client side](https://blog.angular-university.io/angular-jwt-authentication/#step4storingandusingthejwtontheclientside:~:text=it.-,Step 4 - Storing and using the JWT on the client side,Once we receive the JWT on)

